# Materials

## Quotes
 - Less is more.
 - Architecture starts when you carefully put two bricks together. There it begins.
 - God is in the details.
 - I don't want to be interesting. I want to be good.
 - Architecture is the will of an epoch translated into space.
 - I do not oppose form, but only form as a goal.
 - It is not possible to go forward while looking back.
 - Architecture depends on facts, but its real field of activity lies in the realm of the significance.
 - True education is concerned not only with practical goals but also with values. Our aims assure us of our material life, our values make possible our spiritual life.
 - A chair is a very difficult object. A skyscraper is almost easier. That is why Chippendale is famous.
 - It is much better to have just one idea, and if the idea is clear, then you can fight for it. That is how you can get things done.
 - Architecture is always the will of the age conceived as space - nothing else. Until this simple truth is clearly recognized, the struggle over the foundation of a new architecture confident in its aims and powerful in its impact cannot be realized; until then, it is destined to remain a chaos of uncoordinated forces. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Age, Truth, Space I see in industrialization the central problem of building in our time. If we succeed in carrying out this industrialization, the social, economic, technical, and also artistic problems will be readily solved. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Time, Problem, Building It must be understood that every architecture is bound to its time and manifests itself only in vital tasks and through the materials of its age. It has never been otherwise. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Time, Age, Understood Technology is rooted in the past. It dominates the present and tends into the future. It is a real historical movement - one of the great movements which shape and represent their epoch. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Future, Technology, Great Create form out of the nature of the task with the means of our time. This is our work. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Nature, Time, Work The idea of service leads to community. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Community, Service, Leads You cannot save wonderful towns. You can only save wonderful towns by building new ones. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Building, Wonderful, Cannot If there really is no new way to be found, we are not afraid to stick with the old one that we found previously. So, I do not make every building different. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Building, Afraid, Stick Where can we find greater structural clarity than in the wooden buildings of old? Where else can we find such unity of material, construction and form? here, the wisdom of whole generations is stored. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Wisdom, Unity, Clarity Most of our designs are developed long before there is a practical possibility of carrying them out. I do that on purpose and have done it all my life. I do it when I am interested in something. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Life, Purpose, Carrying The problem of architecture has always been the same throughout time. Its authentic quality is reached through its proportions, and the proportions cost nothing. In fact, most of them are proportions among things, not the things themselves. Art is almost always a question of proportions. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Art, Time, Quality We have to know that life cannot be changed by us. It will be changed. But not by us. We can only guide the things that can cause physical change. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Life, Change, Physical A chair is a very difficult object. A skyscraper is almost easier. That is why Chippendale is famous. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Design, Famous, Difficult Modern buildings of our time are so huge that one must group them. Often the space between these buildings is as important as the buildings themselves. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Time, Space, Group It is much better to have just one idea, and if the idea is clear, then you can fight for it. That is how you can get things done. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Fight, Clear The architect must get to know the people who will live in the planned house. From their needs, the rest inevitably follows. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Rest, House, Planned Architecture is the will of an epoch translated into space. Living, Changing, New. Not yesterday, not tomorrow, only today can be given form. Only such architecture is creative. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Space, Today, Tomorrow Form as a goal always ends in formalism. For this striving is directed not towards an inside, but towards an outside. But only a living inside has a living outside. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Goal, Living, Striving Never talk to a client about architecture. Talk to him about his children. That is simply good politics. he will not understand what you have to say about architecture most of the time. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Time, Good, Politics Our utilitarian structures will mature into architecture only when, through their fulfillment of function, they become carriers of the will of the age. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe Age, Mature, Structures What finally is beauty? Certainly nothing that can be calculated or measured. It is always something imponderable, something that lies between things.
 - We should attempt to bring nature, houses, and human beings together in a higher unity.
 - Every How is carried by a What.
 - Nothing can express the aim and meaning of our work better than the profound words of St. Augustine - 'Beauty is the splendor of Truth.'
 - I thought a lot and I controlled my thoughts in my work - and I controlled my work through my thoughts.
 - Not yesterday, not tomorrow, only today can be given form. Only this architecture creates.